---
layout: post
title:      "Why I Started Bootcamp at FlatIron"
date:       2018-12-05 02:29:25 +0000
permalink:  why_i_started_bootcamp_at_flatiron
---


I'm a classically-trained, Ph.D. synthetic organic chemist turned medical device cybersecurity leader at the US FDA.  At the end of my Ph.D. studies, I rekindled an interest in all things technology, in one vivid example, on a tour of Eli Lilly I was more interested in the 10 million dollar chemistry robot than the chemistry itself.  In 2011, as career options opened before me, bored by the traditional and intrigued by the less-traditional, I saw the opportunity to immerse myself in the role of government regulator at the FDA, which regulates roughly 20% of US GDP.  As I relearned to follow my curiosity in tech so did my career follow to its current place; into medical devices, an emerging tech field and cybersecurity, which is a red-hot topic area.  Tech is currently pushing the boundaries of what's possible in healthcare and cybersecurity is the foundation, not just in privacy and information security, but for the resiliency of critical hospital operations.   

My initial role at FDA was as a medical device reviewer where I provided engineering and software reviews, primarily of diabetes care technology, such as Continuous Glucose Monitors (CGMs) and insulin pumps, as well as mono-hormonal artificial pancreas systems.  Software review involved critique of software process and documentation, development environments, architecture, design requirements, clinical algorithms, and testing.  As I grew more conformable with these roles, I became the primary reviewer of software recalls where I’d assess public health risk of software failures. 

2013 was a monumental year.  President Obama released an executive order prompting executive agencies to protect critical infrastructure, Healthcare and Public Health (HPH) was identified as one of 16 critical infrastructure sectors. I was processing one of the first cybersecurity recalls at FDA and a security researcher disclosed hundreds of vulnerabilities in medical devices.  At the time, FDA had no established policy, process, or people to comprehensively address cybersecurity-related risks to public health.  In response, FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) established the FDA’s first cybersecurity workgroup, which published framework policies for medical device design (2014) and for risk management (2016).  I’ve served as a subject matter expert since 2013 until 2016 where I started serving as co-chair.  While the complexities and nuances of medical device and healthcare cybersecurity cannot be fully articulated here, the need, everywhere, for software, systems, and security engineering competence is expanding exponentially. 

Additionally, as technology continues to integrate and fundamentally transform all economies; educational systems will also require rapid transformation.  This educational transformation begins at home.  Parents are children's primary educators.  As a father, I feel compelled, while educational systems adapt, to lead by example, and guide my kids and my community through the possibilities of technology.  Individual efforts, coupled with systematic educational disruption and adaptation will create the next wave of engineers, as well as regulators and policy makers that can lead society though the complex, technology-driven era.  Accordingly, learning software engineering is the 1st step to catalyzing my personal and professional transformation.
